Function: struct usb_function

describes one function of a configuration

Members
  name
    For diagnostics, identifies the function.
  strings
    tables of strings, keyed by identifiers assigned during bind() and by language IDs provided in control requests
  fs_descriptors
    Table of full (or low) speed descriptors, using interface and
string identifiers assigned during bind() .  If this pointer is null,
the function will not be available at full speed (or at low speed).
  hs_descriptors
    Table of high speed descriptors, using interface and
string identifiers assigned during bind() .  If this pointer is null,
the function will not be available at high speed.
  ss_descriptors
    Table of super speed descriptors, using interface and
string identifiers assigned during bind() . If this
pointer is null after initiation, the function will not
be available at super speed.
  ssp_descriptors
    Table of super speed plus descriptors, using
interface and string identifiers assigned during bind() . If
this pointer is null after initiation, the function will not
be available at super speed plus.
  config
    assigned when usb_add_function() is called; this is the
configuration with which this function is associated.
  os_desc_table
    Table of (interface id, os descriptors) pairs. The function
can expose more than one interface. If an interface is a member of
an IAD, only the first interface of IAD has its entry in the table.
  os_desc_n
    Number of entries in os_desc_table
  bind
    Before the gadget can register, all of its functions bind() to the
available resources including string and interface identifiers used
in interface or class descriptors; endpoints; I/O buffers; and so on.
  unbind
    Reverses bind ; called as a side effect of unregistering the
driver which added this function.
  free_func
    free the struct usb_function .
  mod
    (internal) points to the module that created this structure.
  set_alt
    (REQUIRED) Reconfigures altsettings; function drivers may
initialize usb_ep.driver data at this time (when it is used).
Note that setting an interface to its current altsetting resets
interface state, and that all interfaces have a disabled state.
  get_alt
    Returns the active altsetting.  If this is not provided,
then only altsetting zero is supported.
  disable
    (REQUIRED) Indicates the function should be disabled.  Reasons
include host resetting or reconfiguring the gadget, and disconnection.
  setup
    Used for interface-specific control requests.
  req_match
    Tests if a given class request can be handled by this function.
  suspend
    Notifies functions when the host stops sending USB traffic.
  resume
    Notifies functions when the host restarts USB traffic.
  get_status
    Returns function status as a reply to GetStatus() request when the recipient is Interface.
  func_suspend
    callback to be called when
SetFeature(FUNCTION_SUSPEND) is reseived
  func_suspended
    Indicates whether the function is in function suspend state.
  func_wakeup_armed
    Indicates whether the function is armed by the host for
wakeup signaling.