Function: unsigned long do_mmap ( struct file * file , unsigned long addr , unsigned long len , unsigned long prot , unsigned long flags , vm_flags_t vm_flags , unsigned long pgoff , unsigned long * populate , struct list_head * uf )

Perform a userland memory mapping into the current process address space of length len with protection bits prot , mmap flags flags (from which VMA flags will be inferred), and any additional VMA flags to apply vm_flags . If this is a file-backed mapping then the file is specified in file and page offset into the file via pgoff .

Parameters
  struct file *file
    An optional struct file pointer describing the file which is to be
mapped, if a file-backed mapping.
  unsigned long addr
    If non-zero, hints at (or if flags has MAP_FIXED set, specifies) the
address at which to perform this mapping. See mmap (2) for details. Must be
page-aligned.
  unsigned long len
    The length of the mapping. Will be page-aligned and must be at least 1
page in size.
  unsigned long prot
    Protection bits describing access required to the mapping. See mmap
(2) for details.
  unsigned long flags
    Flags specifying how the mapping should be performed, see mmap (2)
for details.
  vm_flags_t vm_flags
    VMA flags which should be set by default, or 0 otherwise.
  unsigned long pgoff
    Page offset into the file if file-backed, should be 0 otherwise.
  unsigned long *populate
    A pointer to a value which will be set to 0 if no population of
the range is required, or the number of bytes to populate if it is. Must be
non-NULL. See mmap (2) for details as to under what circumstances population
of the range occurs.
  struct list_head *uf
    An optional pointer to a list head to track userfaultfd unmap events
should unmapping events arise. If provided, it is up to the caller to manage
this.

Description
  This function does not perform security checks on the file and assumes, if uf is non-NULL, the caller has provided a list head to track unmap events
for userfaultfd uf .