Macro: NTSYNC_IOC_WAIT_ANY

Poll on any of a list of objects, atomically acquiring at most one.
Takes a pointer to struct ntsync_wait_args , which is
used as follows: timeout Absolute timeout in nanoseconds. If NTSYNC_WAIT_REALTIME is set, the timeout is measured against the REALTIME clock;
otherwise it is measured against the MONOTONIC clock. If the
timeout is equal to or earlier than the current time, the
function returns immediately without sleeping. If timeout is U64_MAX, the function will sleep until an object is
signaled, and will not fail with ETIMEDOUT . objs Pointer to an array of count file descriptors
(specified as an integer so that the structure has the same
size regardless of architecture). If any object is
invalid, the function fails with EINVAL . count Number of objects specified in the objs array.
If greater than NTSYNC_MAX_WAIT_COUNT , the function fails
with EINVAL . owner Mutex owner identifier. If any object in objs is a mutex,
the ioctl will attempt to acquire that mutex on behalf of owner . If owner is zero, the ioctl fails with EINVAL . index On success, contains the index (into objs ) of the object
which was signaled. If alert was signaled instead,
this contains count . alert Optional event object file descriptor. If nonzero, this
specifies an “alert” event object which, if signaled, will
terminate the wait. If nonzero, the identifier must point to a
valid event. flags Zero or more flags. Currently the only flag is NTSYNC_WAIT_REALTIME , which causes the timeout to be
measured against the REALTIME clock instead of MONOTONIC. pad Unused, must be set to zero. This function attempts to acquire one of the given objects. If unable
to do so, it sleeps until an object becomes signaled, subsequently
acquiring it, or the timeout expires. In the latter case the ioctl
fails with ETIMEDOUT . The function only acquires one object, even
if multiple objects are signaled. A semaphore is considered to be signaled if its count is nonzero, and
is acquired by decrementing its count by one. A mutex is considered
to be signaled if it is unowned or if its owner matches the owner argument, and is acquired by incrementing its recursion count by one
and setting its owner to the owner argument. An auto-reset event
is acquired by designaling it; a manual-reset event is not affected
by acquisition. Acquisition is atomic and totally ordered with respect to other
operations on the same object. If two wait operations (with different owner identifiers) are queued on the same mutex, only one is
signaled. If two wait operations are queued on the same semaphore,
and a value of one is posted to it, only one is signaled. If an abandoned mutex is acquired, the ioctl fails with EOWNERDEAD . Although this is a failure return, the function may
otherwise be considered successful. The mutex is marked as owned by
the given owner (with a recursion count of 1) and as no longer
abandoned, and index is still set to the index of the mutex. The alert argument is an “extra” event which can terminate the
wait, independently of all other objects. It is valid to pass the same object more than once, including by
passing the same event in the objs array and in alert . If a
wakeup occurs due to that object being signaled, index is set to
the lowest index corresponding to that object. The function may fail with EINTR if a signal is received.