Struct: struct regulator_irq_desc

notification sender for IRQ based events.

Members
  name
    The visible name for the IRQ
  fatal_cnt
    If this IRQ is used to signal HW damaging condition it may be
best to shut-down regulator(s) or reboot the SOC if error
handling is repeatedly failing. If fatal_cnt is given the IRQ
handling is aborted if it fails for fatal_cnt times and die() callback (if populated) is called. If die() is not populated
poweroff for the system is attempted in order to prevent any
further damage.
  reread_ms
    The time which is waited before attempting to re-read status
at the worker if IC reading fails. Immediate re-read is done
if time is not specified.
  irq_off_ms
    The time which IRQ is kept disabled before re-evaluating the
status for devices which keep IRQ disabled for duration of the
error. If this is not given the IRQ is left enabled and renable
is not called.
  skip_off
    If set to true the IRQ handler will attempt to check if any of
the associated regulators are enabled prior to taking other
actions. If no regulators are enabled and this is set to true
a spurious IRQ is assumed and IRQ_NONE is returned.
  high_prio
    Boolean to indicate that high priority WQ should be used.
  data
    Driver private data pointer which will be passed as such to
the renable, map_event and die callbacks in regulator_irq_data.
  die
    Protection callback. If IC status reading or recovery actions
fail fatal_cnt times this callback is called or system is
powered off. This callback should implement a final protection
attempt like disabling the regulator. If protection succeeded die() may return 0. If anything else is returned the core
assumes final protection failed and attempts to perform a
poweroff as a last resort.
  map_event
    Driver callback to map IRQ status into regulator devices with
events / errors. NOTE: callback MUST initialize both the
errors and notifs for all rdevs which it signals having
active events as core does not clean the map data.
REGULATOR_FAILED_RETRY can be returned to indicate that the
status reading from IC failed. If this is repeated for
fatal_cnt times the core will call die() callback or power-off
the system as a last resort to protect the HW.
  renable
    Optional callback to check status (if HW supports that) before
re-enabling IRQ. If implemented this should clear the error
flags so that errors fetched by regulator_get_error_flags() are updated. If callback is not implemented then errors are
assumed to be cleared and IRQ is re-enabled.
REGULATOR_FAILED_RETRY can be returned to
indicate that the status reading from IC failed. If this is
repeated for ‘fatal_cnt’ times the core will call die() callback or if die() is not populated then attempt to power-off
the system as a last resort to protect the HW.
Returning zero indicates that the problem in HW has been solved
and IRQ will be re-enabled. Returning REGULATOR_ERROR_ON
indicates the error condition is still active and keeps IRQ
disabled. Please note that returning REGULATOR_ERROR_ON does
not retrigger evaluating what events are active or resending
notifications. If this is needed you probably want to return
zero and allow IRQ to retrigger causing events to be
re-evaluated and re-sent.