Struct: struct drm_dp_aux

DisplayPort AUX channel

Members
  name
    user-visible name of this AUX channel and the
I2C-over-AUX adapter. It’s also used to specify the name of the I2C adapter. If set
to NULL , dev_name() of dev will be used.
  ddc
    I2C adapter that can be used for I2C-over-AUX
communication
  dev
    pointer to struct device that is the parent for this
AUX channel.
  drm_dev
    pointer to the drm_device that owns this AUX channel.
Beware, this may be NULL before drm_dp_aux_register() has been
called. It should be set to the drm_device that will be using this AUX
channel as early as possible. For many graphics drivers this should
happen before drm_dp_aux_init() , however it’s perfectly fine to set
this field later so long as it’s assigned before calling drm_dp_aux_register() .
  crtc
    backpointer to the crtc that is currently using this
AUX channel
  hw_mutex
    internal mutex used for locking transfers. Note that if the underlying hardware is shared among multiple
channels, the driver needs to do additional locking to
prevent concurrent access.
  crc_work
    worker that captures CRCs for each frame
  crc_count
    counter of captured frame CRCs
  transfer
    transfers a message representing a single AUX
transaction. This is a hardware-specific implementation of how
transactions are executed that the drivers must provide. A pointer to a drm_dp_aux_msg structure describing the
transaction is passed into this function. Upon success, the
implementation should return the number of payload bytes that
were transferred, or a negative error-code on failure. Helpers will propagate these errors, with the exception of
the -EBUSY error, which causes a transaction to be retried.
On a short, helpers will return -EPROTO to make it simpler
to check for failure. The transfer() function must only modify the reply field of
the drm_dp_aux_msg structure. The retry logic and i2c
helpers assume this is the case. Also note that this callback can be called no matter the
state dev is in and also no matter what state the panel is
in. It’s expected: If the dev providing the AUX bus is currently unpowered then
it will power itself up for the transfer. If we’re on eDP (using a drm_panel) and the panel is not in a
state where it can respond (it’s not powered or it’s in a
low power state) then this function may return an error, but
not crash. It’s up to the caller of this code to make sure that
the panel is powered on if getting an error back is not OK. If a
drm_panel driver is initiating a DP AUX transfer it may power
itself up however it wants. All other code should ensure that
the pre_enable() bridge chain (which eventually calls the
drm_panel prepare function) has powered the panel.
  wait_hpd_asserted
    wait for HPD to be asserted This is mainly useful for eDP panels drivers to wait for an eDP
panel to finish powering on. It is optional for DP AUX controllers
to implement this function. It is required for DP AUX endpoints
(panel drivers) to call this function after powering up but before
doing AUX transfers unless the DP AUX endpoint driver knows that
we’re not using the AUX controller’s HPD. One example of the panel
driver not needing to call this is if HPD is hooked up to a GPIO
that the panel driver can read directly. If a DP AUX controller does not implement this function then it
may still support eDP panels that use the AUX controller’s built-in
HPD signal by implementing a long wait for HPD in the transfer() callback, though this is deprecated. This function will efficiently wait for the HPD signal to be
asserted. The wait_us parameter that is passed in says that we
know that the HPD signal is expected to be asserted within wait_us microseconds. This function could wait for longer than wait_us if
the logic in the DP controller has a long debouncing time. The
important thing is that if this function returns success that the
DP controller is ready to send AUX transactions. This function returns 0 if HPD was asserted or -ETIMEDOUT if time
expired and HPD wasn’t asserted. This function should not print
timeout errors to the log. The semantics of this function are designed to match the readx_poll_timeout() function. That means a wait_us of 0 means
to wait forever. Like readx_poll_timeout() , this function may sleep. NOTE: this function specifically reports the state of the HPD pin
that’s associated with the DP AUX channel. This is different from
the HPD concept in much of the rest of DRM which is more about
physical presence of a display. For eDP, for instance, a display is
assumed always present even if the HPD pin is deasserted.
  i2c_nack_count
    Counts I2C NACKs, used for DP validation.
  i2c_defer_count
    Counts I2C DEFERs, used for DP validation.
  cec
    struct containing fields used for CEC-Tunneling-over-AUX.
  is_remote
    Is this AUX CH actually using sideband messaging.
  powered_down
    If true then the remote endpoint is powered down.
  no_zero_sized
    If the hw can’t use zero sized transfers (NVIDIA)
  dpcd_probe_disabled
    If probing before a DPCD access is disabled.