Struct: struct vb2_mem_ops

memory handling/memory allocator operations.

Members
  alloc
    allocate video memory and, optionally, allocator private data,
return ERR_PTR() on failure or a pointer to allocator private,
per-buffer data on success; the returned private structure
will then be passed as buf_priv argument to other ops in this
structure. The size argument to this function shall be page aligned .
  put
    inform the allocator that the buffer will no longer be used;
usually will result in the allocator freeing the buffer (if
no other users of this buffer are present); the buf_priv argument is the allocator private per-buffer structure
previously returned from the alloc callback.
  get_dmabuf
    acquire userspace memory for a hardware operation; used for
DMABUF memory types.
  get_userptr
    acquire userspace memory for a hardware operation; used for
USERPTR memory types; vaddr is the address passed to the
videobuf2 layer when queuing a video buffer of USERPTR type;
should return an allocator private per-buffer structure
associated with the buffer on success, ERR_PTR() on failure;
the returned private structure will then be passed as buf_priv argument to other ops in this structure.
  put_userptr
    inform the allocator that a USERPTR buffer will no longer
be used.
  prepare
    called every time the buffer is passed from userspace to the
driver, useful for cache synchronisation, optional.
  finish
    called every time the buffer is passed back from the driver
to the userspace, also optional.
  attach_dmabuf
    attach a shared struct dma_buf for a hardware operation;
used for DMABUF memory types; dev is the alloc device
dbuf is the shared dma_buf; returns ERR_PTR() on failure;
allocator private per-buffer structure on success;
this needs to be used for further accesses to the buffer.
  detach_dmabuf
    inform the exporter of the buffer that the current DMABUF
buffer is no longer used; the buf_priv argument is the
allocator private per-buffer structure previously returned
from the attach_dmabuf callback.
  map_dmabuf
    request for access to the dmabuf from allocator; the allocator
of dmabuf is informed that this driver is going to use the
dmabuf.
  unmap_dmabuf
    releases access control to the dmabuf - allocator is notified
that this driver is done using the dmabuf for now.
  vaddr
    return a kernel virtual address to a given memory buffer
associated with the passed private structure or NULL if no
such mapping exists.
  cookie
    return allocator specific cookie for a given memory buffer
associated with the passed private structure or NULL if not
available.
  num_users
    return the current number of users of a memory buffer;
return 1 if the videobuf2 layer (or actually the driver using
it) is the only user.
  mmap
    setup a userspace mapping for a given memory buffer under
the provided virtual memory region.