Struct: struct drm_encoder_helper_funcs

helper operations for encoders

Members
  dpms
    Callback to control power levels on the encoder.  If the mode passed in
is unsupported, the provider must use the next lowest power level.
This is used by the legacy encoder helpers to implement DPMS
functionality in drm_helper_connector_dpms() . This callback is also used to disable an encoder by calling it with
DRM_MODE_DPMS_OFF if the disable hook isn’t used. This callback is used by the legacy CRTC helpers.  Atomic helpers
also support using this hook for enabling and disabling an encoder to
facilitate transitions to atomic, but it is deprecated. Instead enable and disable should be used.
  mode_valid
    This callback is used to check if a specific mode is valid in this
encoder. This should be implemented if the encoder has some sort
of restriction in the modes it can display. For example, a given
encoder may be responsible to set a clock value. If the clock can
not produce all the values for the available modes then this callback
can be used to restrict the number of modes to only the ones that
can be displayed. This hook is used by the probe helpers to filter the mode list in drm_helper_probe_single_connector_modes() , and it is used by the
atomic helpers to validate modes supplied by userspace in drm_atomic_helper_check_modeset() . This function is optional. NOTE: Since this function is both called from the check phase of an atomic
commit, and the mode validation in the probe paths it is not allowed
to look at anything else but the passed-in mode, and validate it
against configuration-invariant hardware constraints. Any further
limits which depend upon the configuration can only be checked in mode_fixup or atomic_check . RETURNS: drm_mode_status Enum
  mode_fixup
    This callback is used to validate and adjust a mode. The parameter
mode is the display mode that should be fed to the next element in
the display chain, either the final drm_connector or a drm_bridge .
The parameter adjusted_mode is the input mode the encoder requires. It
can be modified by this callback and does not need to match mode. See
also drm_crtc_state.adjusted_mode for more details. This function is used by both legacy CRTC helpers and atomic helpers.
This hook is optional. NOTE: This function is called in the check phase of atomic modesets, which
can be aborted for any reason (including on userspace’s request to
just check whether a configuration would be possible). Atomic drivers
MUST NOT touch any persistent state (hardware or software) or data
structures except the passed in adjusted_mode parameter. This is in contrast to the legacy CRTC helpers where this was
allowed. Atomic drivers which need to inspect and adjust more state should
instead use the atomic_check callback. If atomic_check is used,
this hook isn’t called since atomic_check allows a strict superset
of the functionality of mode_fixup . Also beware that userspace can request its own custom modes, neither
core nor helpers filter modes to the list of probe modes reported by
the GETCONNECTOR IOCTL and stored in drm_connector.modes . To ensure
that modes are filtered consistently put any encoder constraints and
limits checks into mode_valid . RETURNS: True if an acceptable configuration is possible, false if the modeset
operation should be rejected.
  prepare
    This callback should prepare the encoder for a subsequent modeset,
which in practice means the driver should disable the encoder if it
is running. Most drivers ended up implementing this by calling their dpms hook with DRM_MODE_DPMS_OFF. This callback is used by the legacy CRTC helpers.  Atomic helpers
also support using this hook for disabling an encoder to facilitate
transitions to atomic, but it is deprecated. Instead disable should
be used.
  commit
    This callback should commit the new mode on the encoder after a modeset,
which in practice means the driver should enable the encoder.  Most
drivers ended up implementing this by calling their dpms hook with
DRM_MODE_DPMS_ON. This callback is used by the legacy CRTC helpers.  Atomic helpers
also support using this hook for enabling an encoder to facilitate
transitions to atomic, but it is deprecated. Instead enable should
be used.
  mode_set
    This callback is used to update the display mode of an encoder. Note that the display pipe is completely off when this function is
called. Drivers which need hardware to be running before they program
the new display mode (because they implement runtime PM) should not
use this hook, because the helper library calls it only once and not
every time the display pipeline is suspend using either DPMS or the
new “ACTIVE” property. Such drivers should instead move all their
encoder setup into the enable callback. This callback is used both by the legacy CRTC helpers and the atomic
modeset helpers. It is optional in the atomic helpers. NOTE: If the driver uses the atomic modeset helpers and needs to inspect
the connector state or connector display info during mode setting, atomic_mode_set can be used instead.
  atomic_mode_set
    This callback is used to update the display mode of an encoder. Note that the display pipe is completely off when this function is
called. Drivers which need hardware to be running before they program
the new display mode (because they implement runtime PM) should not
use this hook, because the helper library calls it only once and not
every time the display pipeline is suspended using either DPMS or the
new “ACTIVE” property. Such drivers should instead move all their
encoder setup into the enable callback. This callback is used by the atomic modeset helpers in place of the mode_set callback, if set by the driver. It is optional and should
be used instead of mode_set if the driver needs to inspect the
connector state or display info, since there is no direct way to
go from the encoder to the current connector.
  detect
    This callback can be used by drivers who want to do detection on the
encoder object instead of in connector functions. It is not used by any helper and therefore has purely driver-specific
semantics. New drivers shouldn’t use this and instead just implement
their own private callbacks. FIXME: This should just be converted into a pile of driver vfuncs.
Currently radeon, amdgpu and nouveau are using it.
  atomic_disable
    This callback should be used to disable the encoder. With the atomic
drivers it is called before this encoder’s CRTC has been shut off
using their own drm_crtc_helper_funcs.atomic_disable hook. If that
sequence is too simple drivers can just add their own driver private
encoder hooks and call them from CRTC’s callback by looping over all
encoders connected to it using for_each_encoder_on_crtc() . This callback is a variant of disable that provides the atomic state
to the driver. If atomic_disable is implemented, disable is not
called by the helpers. This hook is only used by atomic helpers. Atomic drivers don’t need
to implement it if there’s no need to disable anything at the encoder
level. To ensure that runtime PM handling (using either DPMS or the
new “ACTIVE” property) works atomic_disable must be the inverse of atomic_enable .
  atomic_enable
    This callback should be used to enable the encoder. It is called
after this encoder’s CRTC has been enabled using their own drm_crtc_helper_funcs.atomic_enable hook. If that sequence is
too simple drivers can just add their own driver private encoder
hooks and call them from CRTC’s callback by looping over all encoders
connected to it using for_each_encoder_on_crtc() . This callback is a variant of enable that provides the atomic state
to the driver. If atomic_enable is implemented, enable is not
called by the helpers. This hook is only used by atomic helpers, it is the opposite of atomic_disable . Atomic drivers don’t need to implement it if there’s
no need to enable anything at the encoder level. To ensure that
runtime PM handling works atomic_enable must be the inverse of atomic_disable .
  disable
    This callback should be used to disable the encoder. With the atomic
drivers it is called before this encoder’s CRTC has been shut off
using their own drm_crtc_helper_funcs.disable hook.  If that
sequence is too simple drivers can just add their own driver private
encoder hooks and call them from CRTC’s callback by looping over all
encoders connected to it using for_each_encoder_on_crtc() . This hook is used both by legacy CRTC helpers and atomic helpers.
Atomic drivers don’t need to implement it if there’s no need to
disable anything at the encoder level. To ensure that runtime PM
handling (using either DPMS or the new “ACTIVE” property) works disable must be the inverse of enable for atomic drivers. For atomic drivers also consider atomic_disable and save yourself
from having to read the NOTE below! NOTE: With legacy CRTC helpers there’s a big semantic difference between disable and other hooks (like prepare or dpms ) used to shut down a
encoder: disable is only called when also logically disabling the
display pipeline and needs to release any resources acquired in mode_set (like shared PLLs, or again release pinned framebuffers). Therefore disable must be the inverse of mode_set plus commit for
drivers still using legacy CRTC helpers, which is different from the
rules under atomic.
  enable
    This callback should be used to enable the encoder. With the atomic
drivers it is called after this encoder’s CRTC has been enabled using
their own drm_crtc_helper_funcs.enable hook.  If that sequence is
too simple drivers can just add their own driver private encoder
hooks and call them from CRTC’s callback by looping over all encoders
connected to it using for_each_encoder_on_crtc() . This hook is only used by atomic helpers, it is the opposite of disable . Atomic drivers don’t need to implement it if there’s no
need to enable anything at the encoder level. To ensure that
runtime PM handling (using either DPMS or the new “ACTIVE” property)
works enable must be the inverse of disable for atomic drivers.
  atomic_check
    This callback is used to validate encoder state for atomic drivers.
Since the encoder is the object connecting the CRTC and connector it
gets passed both states, to be able to validate interactions and
update the CRTC to match what the encoder needs for the requested
connector. Since this provides a strict superset of the functionality of mode_fixup (the requested and adjusted modes are both available
through the passed in struct drm_crtc_state ) mode_fixup is not
called when atomic_check is implemented. This function is used by the atomic helpers, but it is optional. NOTE: This function is called in the check phase of an atomic update. The
driver is not allowed to change anything outside of the free-standing
state objects passed-in or assembled in the overall drm_atomic_state update tracking structure. Also beware that userspace can request its own custom modes, neither
core nor helpers filter modes to the list of probe modes reported by
the GETCONNECTOR IOCTL and stored in drm_connector.modes . To ensure
that modes are filtered consistently put any encoder constraints and
limits checks into mode_valid . RETURNS: 0 on success, -EINVAL if the state or the transition can’t be
supported, -ENOMEM on memory allocation failure and -EDEADLK if an
attempt to obtain another state object ran into a drm_modeset_lock deadlock.