Struct: struct ahash_alg

asynchronous message digest definition

Members
  init
    [mandatory] Initialize the transformation context. Intended only to initialize the
state of the HASH transformation at the beginning. This shall fill in
the internal structures used during the entire duration of the whole
transformation. No data processing happens at this point. Driver code
implementation must not use req->result.
  update
    [mandatory] Push a chunk of data into the driver for transformation. This
function actually pushes blocks of data from upper layers into the
driver, which then passes those to the hardware as seen fit. This
function must not finalize the HASH transformation by calculating the
final message digest as this only adds more data into the
transformation. This function shall not modify the transformation
context, as this function may be called in parallel with the same
transformation object. Data processing can happen synchronously
[SHASH] or asynchronously [AHASH] at this point. Driver must not use
req->result.
For block-only algorithms, update must return the number
of bytes to store in the API partial block buffer.
  final
    [mandatory] Retrieve result from the driver. This function finalizes the
transformation and retrieves the resulting hash from the driver and
pushes it back to upper layers. No data processing happens at this
point unless hardware requires it to finish the transformation
(then the data buffered by the device driver is processed).
  finup
    [optional] Combination of update and final . This function is effectively a
combination of update and final calls issued in sequence. As some
hardware cannot do update and final separately, this callback was
added to allow such hardware to be used at least by IPsec. Data
processing can happen synchronously [SHASH] or asynchronously [AHASH]
at this point.
  digest
    Combination of init and update and final . This function
effectively behaves as the entire chain of operations, init , update and final issued in sequence. Just like finup , this was
added for hardware which cannot do even the finup , but can only do
the whole transformation in one run. Data processing can happen
synchronously [SHASH] or asynchronously [AHASH] at this point.
  export
    Export partial state of the transformation. This function dumps the
entire state of the ongoing transformation into a provided block of
data so it can be import ‘ed back later on. This is useful in case
you want to save partial result of the transformation after
processing certain amount of data and reload this partial result
multiple times later on for multiple re-use. No data processing
happens at this point. Driver must not use req->result.
  import
    Import partial state of the transformation. This function loads the
entire state of the ongoing transformation from a provided block of
data so the transformation can continue from this point onward. No
data processing happens at this point. Driver must not use
req->result.
  export_core
    Export partial state without partial block.  Only defined
for algorithms that are not block-only.
  import_core
    Import partial state without partial block.  Only defined
for algorithms that are not block-only.
  setkey
    Set optional key used by the hashing algorithm. Intended to push
optional key used by the hashing algorithm from upper layers into
the driver. This function can store the key in the transformation
context or can outright program it into the hardware. In the former
case, one must be careful to program the key into the hardware at
appropriate time and one must be careful that . setkey() can be
called multiple times during the existence of the transformation
object. Not  all hashing algorithms do implement this function as it
is only needed for keyed message digests. SHAx/MDx/CRCx do NOT
implement this function. HMAC(MDx)/HMAC(SHAx)/CMAC(AES) do implement
this function. This function must be called before any other of the init , update , final , finup , digest is called. No data
processing happens at this point.
  init_tfm
    Initialize the cryptographic transformation object.
This function is called only once at the instantiation
time, right after the transformation context was
allocated. In case the cryptographic hardware has
some special requirements which need to be handled
by software, this function shall check for the precise
requirement of the transformation and put any software
fallbacks in place.
  exit_tfm
    Deinitialize the cryptographic transformation object.
This is a counterpart to init_tfm , used to remove
various changes set in init_tfm .
  clone_tfm
    Copy transform into new object, may allocate memory.
  halg
    see struct hash_alg_common