Struct: struct bus_type

The bus type of the device

Members
  name
    The name of the bus.
  dev_name
    Used for subsystems to enumerate devices like (“foo``u``”, dev->id).
  bus_groups
    Default attributes of the bus.
  dev_groups
    Default attributes of the devices on the bus.
  drv_groups
    Default attributes of the device drivers on the bus.
  match
    Called, perhaps multiple times, whenever a new device or driver
is added for this bus. It should return a positive value if the
given device can be handled by the given driver and zero
otherwise. It may also return error code if determining that
the driver supports the device is not possible. In case of
-EPROBE_DEFER it will queue the device for deferred probing.
  uevent
    Called when a device is added, removed, or a few other things
that generate uevents to add the environment variables.
  probe
    Called when a new device or driver add to this bus, and callback
the specific driver’s probe to initial the matched device.
  sync_state
    Called to sync device state to software state after all the
state tracking consumers linked to this device (present at
the time of late_initcall) have successfully bound to a
driver. If the device has no consumers, this function will
be called at late_initcall_sync level. If the device has
consumers that are never bound to a driver, this function
will never get called until they do.
  remove
    Called when a device removed from this bus.
  shutdown
    Called at shut-down time to quiesce the device.
  irq_get_affinity
    Get IRQ affinity mask for the device on this bus.
  online
    Called to put the device back online (after offlining it).
  offline
    Called to put the device offline for hot-removal. May fail.
  suspend
    Called when a device on this bus wants to go to sleep mode.
  resume
    Called to bring a device on this bus out of sleep mode.
  num_vf
    Called to find out how many virtual functions a device on this
bus supports.
  dma_configure
    Called to setup DMA configuration on a device on
this bus.
  dma_cleanup
    Called to cleanup DMA configuration on a device on
this bus.
  pm
    Power management operations of this bus, callback the specific
device driver’s pm-ops.
  need_parent_lock
    When probing or removing a device on this bus, the
device core should lock the device’s parent.