Struct: struct usb_driver

identifies USB interface driver to usbcore

Members
  name
    The driver name should be unique among USB drivers,
and should normally be the same as the module name.
  probe
    Called to see if the driver is willing to manage a particular
interface on a device.  If it is, probe returns zero and uses usb_set_intfdata() to associate driver-specific data with the
interface.  It may also use usb_set_interface() to specify the
appropriate altsetting.  If unwilling to manage the interface,
return -ENODEV, if genuine IO errors occurred, an appropriate
negative errno value.
  disconnect
    Called when the interface is no longer accessible, usually
because its device has been (or is being) disconnected or the
driver module is being unloaded.
  unlocked_ioctl
    Used for drivers that want to talk to userspace through
the “usbfs” filesystem.  This lets devices provide ways to
expose information to user space regardless of where they
do (or don’t) show up otherwise in the filesystem.
  suspend
    Called when the device is going to be suspended by the
system either from system sleep or runtime suspend context. The
return value will be ignored in system sleep context, so do NOT
try to continue using the device if suspend fails in this case.
Instead, let the resume or reset-resume routine recover from
the failure.
  resume
    Called when the device is being resumed by the system.
  reset_resume
    Called when the suspended device has been reset instead
of being resumed.
  pre_reset
    Called by usb_reset_device() when the device is about to be
reset.  This routine must not return until the driver has no active
URBs for the device, and no more URBs may be submitted until the
post_reset method is called.
  post_reset
    Called by usb_reset_device() after the device
has been reset
  shutdown
    Called at shut-down time to quiesce the device.
  id_table
    USB drivers use ID table to support hotplugging.
Export this with MODULE_DEVICE_TABLE(usb,...).  This must be set
or your driver’s probe function will never get called.
  dev_groups
    Attributes attached to the device that will be created once it
is bound to the driver.
  dynids
    used internally to hold the list of dynamically added device
ids for this driver.
  driver
    The driver-model core driver structure.
  no_dynamic_id
    if set to 1, the USB core will not allow dynamic ids to be
added to this driver by preventing the sysfs file from being created.
  supports_autosuspend
    if set to 0, the USB core will not allow autosuspend
for interfaces bound to this driver.
  disable_hub_initiated_lpm
    if set to 1, the USB core will not allow hubs
to initiate lower power link state transitions when an idle timeout
occurs.  Device-initiated USB 3.0 link PM will still be allowed.
  soft_unbind
    if set to 1, the USB core will not kill URBs and disable
endpoints before calling the driver’s disconnect method.