Struct: struct usb_request

describes one i/o request

Members
  ep
    The associated endpoint set by usb_ep_alloc_request() .
  buf
    Buffer used for data.  Always provide this; some controllers
only use PIO, or don’t use DMA for some endpoints.
  length
    Length of that data
  dma
    DMA address corresponding to ‘buf’.  If you don’t set this
field, and the usb controller needs one, it is responsible
for mapping and unmapping the buffer.
  sg
    a scatterlist for SG-capable controllers.
  num_sgs
    number of SG entries
  num_mapped_sgs
    number of SG entries mapped to DMA (internal)
  stream_id
    The stream id, when USB3.0 bulk streams are being used
  is_last
    Indicates if this is the last request of a stream_id before
switching to a different stream (required for DWC3 controllers).
  no_interrupt
    If true, hints that no completion irq is needed.
Helpful sometimes with deep request queues that are handled
directly by DMA controllers.
  zero
    If true, when writing data, makes the last packet be “short”
by adding a zero length packet as needed;
  short_not_ok
    When reading data, makes short packets be
treated as errors (queue stops advancing till cleanup).
  dma_mapped
    Indicates if request has been mapped to DMA (internal)
  sg_was_mapped
    Set if the scatterlist has been mapped before the request
  complete
    Function called when request completes, so this request and
its buffer may be re-used.  The function will always be called with
interrupts disabled, and it must not sleep.
Reads terminate with a short packet, or when the buffer fills,
whichever comes first.  When writes terminate, some data bytes
will usually still be in flight (often in a hardware fifo).
Errors (for reads or writes) stop the queue from advancing
until the completion function returns, so that any transfers
invalidated by the error may first be dequeued.
  context
    For use by the completion callback
  list
    For use by the gadget driver.
  frame_number
    Reports the interval number in (micro)frame in which the
isochronous transfer was transmitted or received.
  status
    Reports completion code, zero or a negative errno.
Normally, faults block the transfer queue from advancing until
the completion callback returns.
Code “-ESHUTDOWN” indicates completion caused by device disconnect,
or when the driver disabled the endpoint.
  actual
    Reports bytes transferred to/from the buffer.  For reads (OUT
transfers) this may be less than the requested length.  If the
short_not_ok flag is set, short reads are treated as errors
even when status otherwise indicates successful completion.
Note that for writes (IN transfers) some data bytes may still
reside in a device-side FIFO when the request is reported as
complete.